README.md, before:

# Data analysis for beginners in R

Expert Skills Training the LBG Career Center

March 6, 13, 20 and 27, 2024, Wednesdays 10am-12pm

## Who am I?

My name is Hannah Metzler, and I am currently a PostDoc at MedUni Vienna and the Complexity Science Hub Vienna. I have a background in Psychology and Cognitive Neuroscience, and I currently do research in computational social science at the interface of Psychology and Data Science.

Email: metzler[at]csh.ac.at

Website: <https://hannahmetzler.eu>

## What is this course about?

This course will introduce you to coding your data analyses and data visualizations with the software R. It is geared for people who know the basics of statistics, but have never written code before. We will set up R, Rstudio and Git, learn how to wrangle and clean data, how to make pretty plots, and how to do basic statistics (descriptives, t-tests, ANOVAs, regressions etc.) in R.

If you have had doubts if you'd be able to write code, but secretly have been wanting to for a long time, this course is for you. In my experience, it seems more challenging and less fun initially than it later turns out to be! Coming from a social science background myself, I want to help others jump over the barrier of self-doubts and make it easy for you to start writing your own code.

## Course materials

-  [Introduction slides](https://hannahmetzler.eu/R_intro/Course_overview/Overview.html)
- [Preparation for Lesson 1](https://github.com/hannahmetzler/R_intro/blob/main/Lesson_1/lesson1_preparations.md): Installing R and Rstudio. 
-  [Lesson 1](https://hannahmetzler.eu/R_intro/Lesson_1/Lesson1.html) (Download [Quarto file](/Lesson_1/Lesson1.qmd))
- [Preparation for Lesson 2](https://hannahmetzler.eu/R_intro/Lesson_2/Install_Git_GitHub/Git_Github.html). Please follow this to setp up Git and GitHub before our next session.
-  [Lesson 2](https://hannahmetzler.eu/R_intro/Lesson_2/Lesson2.html) (Download [Quarto file](/Lesson_2/Lesson2.qmd))

## License

This work is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License. ([CC-BY-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/)).

## Acknowledgement & Resources

This course is based on a free online course book:

Lisa DeBruine & Dale Barr. (2022). [Data Skills for Reproducible Research:](https://psyteachr.github.io/reprores-v3/index.html) (3.0) Zenodo. <doi:10.5281/zenodo.6527194>

You can use it to repeat lessons, understand something better, or catch up if you miss a class.

There are a variety of other free online classes on R, some including an introduction to statistics. You can find a list of courses I have found useful [here](https://github.com/hannahmetzler/R_intro/blob/main/Resources.md). If a course has not been updated recently, it is quite likely that some things have changed, as R and its packages are regularly updated. Most things will still work, however.

Commit message:

added page course to references

README.md, after:

# Data analysis for beginners in R

Expert Skills Training the LBG Career Center

March 6, 13, 20 and 27, 2024, Wednesdays 10am-12pm

## Who am I?

My name is Hannah Metzler, and I am currently a PostDoc at MedUni Vienna and the Complexity Science Hub Vienna. I have a background in Psychology and Cognitive Neuroscience, and I currently do research in computational social science at the interface of Psychology and Data Science.

Email: metzler[at]csh.ac.at

Website: <https://hannahmetzler.eu>

## What is this course about?

This course will introduce you to coding your data analyses and data visualizations with the software R. It is geared for people who know the basics of statistics, but have never written code before. We will set up R, Rstudio and Git, learn how to wrangle and clean data, how to make pretty plots, and how to do basic statistics (descriptives, t-tests, ANOVAs, regressions etc.) in R.

If you have had doubts if you'd be able to write code, but secretly have been wanting to for a long time, this course is for you. In my experience, it seems more challenging and less fun initially than it later turns out to be! Coming from a social science background myself, I want to help others jump over the barrier of self-doubts and make it easy for you to start writing your own code.

## Course materials

-  [Introduction slides](https://hannahmetzler.eu/R_intro/Course_overview/Overview.html)
- [Preparation for Lesson 1](https://github.com/hannahmetzler/R_intro/blob/main/Lesson_1/lesson1_preparations.md): Installing R and Rstudio. 
-  [Lesson 1](https://hannahmetzler.eu/R_intro/Lesson_1/Lesson1.html) (Download [Quarto file](/Lesson_1/Lesson1.qmd))
- [Preparation for Lesson 2](https://hannahmetzler.eu/R_intro/Lesson_2/Install_Git_GitHub/Git_Github.html). Please follow this to setp up Git and GitHub before our next session.
-  [Lesson 2](https://hannahmetzler.eu/R_intro/Lesson_2/Lesson2.html) (Download [Quarto file](/Lesson_2/Lesson2.qmd))

## License

This work is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License. ([CC-BY-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/)).

## Acknowledgement & Resources

This course is based on a free online course book and a free online course:

- Lisa DeBruine & Dale Barr. (2022). [Data Skills for Reproducible Research:](https://psyteachr.github.io/reprores-v3/index.html) (3.0) Zenodo. <www.doi:10.5281/zenodo.6527194/>
- Page Piccinini. (2018). R-Course, [https://pagepiccinini.com/r-course/](https://pagepiccinini.com/r-course/).

You can use these resources to repeat lessons, to understand something better, and to continue learning about R. 

There are a variety of other free online classes on R, some including an introduction to statistics. You can find a list of courses I have found useful [here](https://github.com/hannahmetzler/R_intro/blob/main/Resources.md). If a course has not been updated recently, it is quite likely that some things have changed, as R and its packages are regularly updated. Most things will still work, however.
